
## Reflection for Marife Dela Torre
     I was tasked to be the lead author of part C which is about the Disjoint Set. But I helped with other aspects throughout the assignment.
     These were my contributions for this assignment: 
     - I helped with the implementation of the functions `representative_node`, `representative`, `__len__`, and continuation on `find_data`. I also added the attribute that keeps track of the size of the SetList. 
     - Helped the lead author of Part D by way of discussing, giving out ideas and understanding the logic behind the Maze problem.
     - Dividing out tasks and reaching out to our group for possible meet up times.
     - Assigned for pages 3,4 and 5 of the Diagrams on Part A. (We divided the tasks for this, but we have a discussion for it beforehand)

     While doing this assignment, I mostly learned about recursive functions and a use case that I can apply it to. I notice that it is really helpful for problems that is looking to find something. For example, in this assignment, I observed that there are similarities with the process of the functions `find_set` on Part C and `find_path` on Part D. The base case is very important to define for recursive functions because it is easy to mess the algorithm with a single wrong condition.

     The most challenging part would be to understand what the process would look like for the Maze problem. It took me lots of time and visualization to understand what the goal of the function is and how would we achieve it. But knowing what the existing functions are for the Maze class and how we can utilize it for the solution made it possible to write our solution for the problem. For my main part, which is Part C, the most challenging would be the implementation of `union_set` and `find_set`. I find it difficult to find the right return value I need for `find_set` so writing the process and looking at the test file helped to be able to pass the test for this part. Having a better understanding at the data structure of SetList helped me to know the existing functions I could use and how these functions connect with each other.

     This assignment also gave importance to group discussions. Having discussions for the problem and understanding the gist of the problem before going in to try and implement the provided functions is very important. Sometimes the problem would not reveal itself that easily so having these informal discussions and visualizations can be helpful for the problem solving process.

## Reflection for Snehal
     For Node, make_set, union_set, find_data, representative_node, and representative functions, I defined constructors in section b.
     I checked that the arguments were put to the appropriate member variables and that the default values in the Node constructor were set to "None". Additionally, I checked that the names of the variables made sense and were self-explanatory.
     The attributes next_node and prev_node were changed to default values in new node, and I made sure that both 'head' and 'tail' referred to the new node in make_set().
     Every node in other_set() had to point towards self for union_set() to work, and union set's 'tail' needed to be updated properly. Other set 'head' and 'tail' were also correctly modified following union.
     I ensured that the right reference to the Node was returned in find_data().
     

     Forming the reasoning before entering the code was the single most significant lesson I learned. For instance, it will be quite challenging to continue creating the code once we start it in the maze runner function if someone doesn't provide a logic for how the code must be made to work. 





## Reflection for Francisco Castillo

      I had assigned part D, which is about completing the function "find_path", this function must find the shortest path of the maze (received as parameter) from point A to point B using recursion. 
     
      I helped to understand some diagrams. Also, I helped in part C, understanding the logic and the problem itself and giving ideas on how to approach the problem.
      Importantly, I received help from Marife to better understand part D, and we discussed as a team the diagrams to better understand how the different functions work and what the behavior would be. 
     
      This process was a lot of fun for me, because it was challenging and allowed me to better understand how to apply recursion. At first it was very difficult to understand how to solve the maze problem, so I decided to approach it in a visual way.
      I decided to approach it in a visual way, by making a simpler drawing, and start walking the maze. This approach allowed me to really understand how to use the default functions and start creating the algorithm.
      Normally, this reflection serves to share what we learn, but after doing this I am clearer on what topics I need to reinforce and read more, such as "Depth first search" and "Breadth First Search". 
