#Part A: Analysis:

Given the SortedTable class:
```python


class SortedTable:

	# packaging the key-value pair into one object
	class Record:
		def __init__(self, key, value):
			self.key = key
			self.value = value


	def __init__(self, cap=32):
		# this initializes a list of of capacity length with None
		self.the_table = [None for i in range(cap)]
		self.cap = cap


	def insert(self, key, value):
		if (self.search(key)!=None):
			return False

		if(len(self) == self.cap):
			# increase the capacity if list is full
			new_table = [None for i in range(self.cap*2)]
			for i in range(self.cap):
				new_table[i]=self.the_table[i]
			self.the_table = new_table
			self.cap *= 2


		self.the_table[len(self)]=self.Record(key,value)
		size = len(self)
		for i in range (0,size-1):
			for j in range(0,size-1-i):
				if(self.the_table[j].key>self.the_table[j+1].key):
					tmp=self.the_table[j]
					self.the_table[j]=self.the_table[j+1]
					self.the_table[j+1]=tmp
		return True

	def modify(self, key, value):
		i = 0
		while (i < len(self) and self.the_table[i].key != key):
			i+=1
		if(i==len(self)):
			return False
		else:
			self.the_table[i].value = value
			return True


	def remove(self, key):
		i = 0
		size = len(self)
		while (i < size and self.the_table[i].key != key):
			i+=1
		if(i==size):
			return False
		while(i+1 < size):
			self.the_table[i]=self.the_table[i+1]
			i+=1
		self.the_table[i] = None
		return True

	def search(self, key):
		i = 0
		size = len(self)
		while  i < size and self.the_table[i].key != key :
			i+=1
		if i==size:
			return None
		else:
			return self.the_table[i].value

	def capacity(self):
		return self.cap

	def __len__(self):
		i =0
		count = 0
		while(i < len(self.the_table)):
			if(self.the_table[i]!=None):
				count+=1
			i+=1
		return count


```
Analyze the functions in the above code that is listed below with respect to the number of records in the table.  Provide the final answer (in big-O notation) into the table.  Show your rough work by doing a proper analysis below the summary table of the functions

## Summary table

| Function | run time with respect to number of records in table | 
|---|---|
|def insert(self, key, value):| $O(n^{2})$|
|def modify(self, key, value):|O(n) |
|def remove(self, key):|O(n) |
|def search(self, key):|O(n) |
|def capacity(self):|O(1) |
|def __len__(self):| O(n)|

## Analysis of 	def insert(self, key, value):

#### Step 1: State your notation
Let the `n` represent the node we are inserting. Let $T(n)$ represent node of operations.

#### Step 2: Count your operations.
```python

def insert(self, key, value):
		if (self.search(key)!=None):
			return False	#1
		if(len(self) == self.cap):
			# increase the capacity if list is full
			new_table = [None for i in range(self.cap*2)]	#n+3
			for i in range(self.cap):	#n+1
				new_table[i]=self.the_table[i]	#n+2
			self.the_table = new_table   #1
			self.cap *= 2	#1


		self.the_table[len(self)]=self.Record(key,value)	#1
		size = len(self)	#1
		for i in range (0,size-1):	#n-1
			for j in range(0,size-1-i):	#n
	#As this is an implementation of Bubble sort the final time complexity will be $ O(n^2) $	
				
				if(self.the_table[j].key>self.the_table[j+1].key):
					tmp=self.the_table[j]	
					self.the_table[j]=self.the_table[j+1] 
					self.the_table[j+1]=tmp	
	#All the inner loops will be 2[(n-1) +(n-2) ----- 1]				
		return True	#1
```
### Step 3: Ascertain T(n).

$$T(n) = 1 + (n+3) + (n+1) + (n+2) + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + (n-1) + n + 1 + 8n(n-1)/2$$

(Bubble sort inner loop)
#### Step 4: Make the equation simpler.

$$ T(n) = 5n + 11 + 4n^{2} - 4n $$

$$ T(n)= 4n^{2} + 2n + 11 $$

Determine the Big(O) notation in step five.

T(n) is therefore $O(n^{2})$.

## Analysis of def modify(self, key, value):
Step 1: Identify your notation
Let the `n` stand for the node that needs to be modified. A node of operations is represented by $T(n)$.

Step 2 is to total your operations. Python

def modify(self, key, value):
		i = 0	#1
		while (i < len(self) and self.the_table[i].key != key):	#n+4
			i+=1	#n+1
		if(i==len(self)):
			return False	#n
		else:
			self.the_table[i].value = value
			return True	#1
#### Step 3 is to calculate T(n).
$$ T(n) = 1 + (n+4) + (n+1) + n + 1 $$

Step 4: Make the equation simpler.
$$ T(n) = 1 + (n+4) + (n+1) + n + 1 $$

$$ T(n) = 3n + 7 $$

Determine the Big(O) notation in step five.
Consequently, $T(n)$ is $O(n)$.


## Analysis of def remove(self, key):
#### Step 1: State your notation
Let the `n` represent the node we are removing. Let $T(n)$ represent the node of operations.

#### Step 2: Count your operations.
```python

def remove(self, key):
		i = 0	#1
		size = len(self)	#1
		while (i < size and self.the_table[i].key != key):	#n+4
			i+=1	#n+2
		if(i==size):
			return False	#1
		while(i+1 < size):	#n+2
			self.the_table[i]=self.the_table[i+1]	#n+2
			i+=1	#n+2
		self.the_table[i] = None
		return True	#1
```


#### Step 3: Ascertain T(n).

$T(n) = 1 + 1 + (n+4) + (n+2) + 1 + (n+2) + (n+2) + 1$

#### Step 4: Make the equation simpler.
$$ T(n) = 5n + 16 $$

Determine the Big(O) notation in step five.
Consequently, $T(n)$ is $O(n)$.

---


## Analysis of def search(self, key):
#### Step 1: State your notation
Let the `n` represent the node we are removing .Let $T(n)$ represent node of operations .

#### Step 2: Count your operations.
```python

	def search(self, key):
			i = 0 	#1
			size = len(self)	#1
			while  i < size and self.the_map[i].key != key :	#n+2
				i+=1	#n+2
			if i==size: 
				return None	#1
			else:	#1
				return self.the_map[i].value	#1
```
#### The third step is to figure out T(n).

$$ T(n) = 1 + 1 + (n+2) + (n+2) + 1 + 1 + 1 $$

#### Step four is to make the equation simpler.
$$ T(n) = 2n + 9 $$

Determine the Big(O) notation in step 5.
Consequently, $T(n)$ is $O(n)$.

---

## Analysis of def capacity(self):
#### Step 1 is to state your notation.
Let the `n` stand for the node that needs to be removed.A node of operations is represented by $T(n)$.

#### Step 2: Count the operations you performed.

```python

	def capacity(self):
		return self.cap	#1

```
#### Step 3:-Determine T(n).
$$ T(n) = 1 $$

#### Step 4:-Simplify the equation.
$$ T(n) = 1 $$

#### Step 5:- Determine the Big(O) notation.
Hence, $T(n)$ is $O(1)$.

---


## Analysis of def __len__(self):
#### Step 1 is to state your notation.
Let the `n`` stand for the node that needs to be removed. A node of operations is represented by $T(n)$.

#### Step 2: Count the operations you performed.
```python

	def __len__(self):
		i =0	#1
		count = 0	#1
		while(i < len(self.the_map)):	#n+1 
			if(self.the_map[i]!=None): 
				count+=1	#n+2
			i+=1	#n+2
		return count	#1

```
#### Step 3: Establish T(n).

$$ T(n) = 1 + 1 + (n+1) + (n+2) + (n+2) + 1 $$

#### Step four is to make the equation simpler.
$$ T(n) = 3n + 8 $$

Determine the Big(O) notation in step 5.
Consequently, $T(n)$ is $O(n)$.


# Part B: Improvements

First suggestion: In the `__len__` function, rather of using a loop to find the number of keys, we could add a member variable, i.e, `size` to count the keys by incrementing the variable everytime the insert function is called and decrementing it when the delete function is called.

Second suggestion: In the `insert` function the algorithm uses the bubble sort algorithm to sort every time it inserts a new record and that takes $O(n^{2})$. To improve this, we can change this into a binary search for insertion assuming that the table is sorted which improves the time complexity to $O(log N)$

# Part E: Reflections


## Reflection for Snehal
I did part A and B of assignment and I was incharge of doing Linear Probing without TS.

One of the most important lessons I took away from this homework was the idea of determining the temporal complexity of each function. I previously understood this idea very well, but this task sharpened my understanding and made learning new things easier.

The implementation of the 'insert' methods, which include addressing collisions using linear probing, may be the most difficult aspect of the provided code for the 'LinearProbingTS' class. Here is an explanation of each technique:

One example is "insert(self, key, value)" Here, employing linear probing to handle collisions correctly is difficult. You must explore the table by increasing the index after creating the hash index using the "hash_function" (where "self.table[index]" is "None") until you locate an open space. You should return 'False' to show that the key is already present in the table if a slot with the same key already exists.





# Reflection for Marife Dela Torre

1. Please detail what exactly **you** did for the assignment.
For this assignment, I was tasked to complete for Part D, which is the implementation of a Graph. I also helped with the process of solving the Linear Probing with TS implementation. Since, we did the LinearProbingwithTS first before we try to understand how it differs with the implementation without TS, I struggled with understanding how to implement the remove function of the LinearProbingNoTS. I collaborated with my groupmates to try and understand how it works to have a better understanding and tried to re-create it and observe the difference between the two. Lastly, I also contributed to Part B suggestions after we had a discussion on what parts we can improve with the SortedTable implementation.

2. What was one thing **you** learned when doing this assignment?
I learned about the importance of putting tombstones when implementing the Hash Tables. It improves the efficiency of the removal process and the table itself. 

3. What was its most challenging aspect and what did **you** do to overcome this challenge?
The most challenging for me was the implementation of remove function to Linear Probing without TS. I thought my implementation works then when I tried testing it, sometimes it works but it is not consistent with all cases. With the help of my groupmates, I managed to understand what is missing and I also used outside sources to try and understand what the algorithm is trying to solve. 



# Reflection for Francisco Castillo

1. 	For the assignment, I took on the task of implementing two different linear probing hash tables - LinearProbingTS (with tombstones) and LinearProbingNoTS (without tombstones). I successfully implemented the LinearProbingTS class, and in the process, I identified and resolved several bugs in the LinearProbingNoTS class. I also contributed to implementing some functions for the LinearProbingNoTS class. To ensure the correctness of our implementations, I actively participated in the testing process.

	Additionally, I reviewed Part A, where we analyzed the member functions of the SortedTable class. During this analysis, I collaborated with the team to identify areas for improvement in terms of efficiency. As a result, we proposed and documented the improvements that could enhance the efficiency of the SortedTable class.
	
	Throughout the assignment, I actively contributed to team discussions, sharing my insights and learning from others' perspectives. The collaborative environment helped us address challenges effectively and ensure the overall success of the assignment.

2. 	One thing I learned during this assignment was how to implement hash tables using linear probing. I gained insights into how hash functions work, how collisions can be handled, and the benefits of using tombstones to mark deleted elements in a hash table.

3. 	The most challenging aspect for me was implementing the remove function for the LinearProbingNoTS class. I had to ensure that the function properly handled the removal of elements and adjusted the positions of other elements to maintain the integrity of the hash table. To overcome this challenge, I carefully studied the concepts of linear probing and the workings of hash tables. I also referred to external resources and discussed the problem with my peers to gain different perspectives. After thorough testing and debugging, I was able to successfully implement the remove function.








